January 16:
I'm using Fuzzilli's coverage calculation to calculate the coverage of each JS engine execution. I modified JavaScriptRaider's Python wrapper. This Python wrapper is used to access and interpret the bitmaps genrated by the Fuzzilli coverage.
The first step is instrumenting a JS Engine to enable fuzzing. Blank JS code is fed to this engine 150 times. There is some uncertainty involved with fuzzing. By running these "dummy executions," we can get an initial bitmap of the engine which will be used as the "base map" from which to measure subsequent executions. Beyond 150 executions, there isn't any increase in coverage for the base map. Additionally, this base map of the JS engine is saved and loaded during each fuzzing session. This prevents the need to reperform the base map generation. It is worth noting that with updates or changes to the JavaScript engine, the base map must be updated.
Initially, the fuzzer takes a corpus directory as input. For each seed in the corpus, the fuzzer creates a bitmap. This collection of bitmaps is stored in a directory. 
Next, all possible combinations of 2 are generated from the input corpus. A random combination of base and ancillary seed are selected to be intermingled as the first mutation.
This summarizes the pre-fuzzing process.

January 17:
A combination is fed to the LLM (i.e. "Here is Code A... Here is Code B..."). These are mixed together. Argument parsing added.

January 18:
Some seeds don't produce any coverage on top of the base calculation. One of two things can be done here. 1) We assume that the base calculation is too high and that the seeds are actually valid. We disregard the base calculation in this case. 2) We remove the 0-coverage seed from the corpus. This assumes something is wrong with the seed.

January 19:
Modified the libJSEngine such that the JS engine errors are ported to file __err__ which will then be used to prompt the LLM for corrections.

January 22:
A function was written to parse the __err__ file. This parsed error is passed back to the LLM to correct the code. The LLM is given 1 chance to correct the code. More output is being given to __err__ than just the error for the JavaScript engine. error_parser needs to be modified to fix this behavior. Handled.

January 23:
We need to determine which mutations we want to use. They need to be high quality large-scale mutations as we are constrained both by the speed and availability of LLM queries.

January 24:
Modified code correction parsing. Now, we can modify the previously unworkable seeds. Mutation idea: Ask LLM to identify unique values from seeds and place in dictionary.

January 25:
In my code fixing, I might have accidentally messed up the implementation such that I can't detect if an error is being triggered. As a rule of thumb, "Fixed" seeds are not to be used as base seeds. Use node.js to get errors -> it'll be faster


January 26:
Some code does not contain syntax errors, they simply trigger less coverage than the default dummy executions. These are still not valid to be used for base seeds. Huge modifications to fixing as well as token counting to avoid overflowing the context window.

January 29:
I have code now that can pull out interesting values/ code lines. TheLLM does this action very well. I also have code to simply run the seed with the instrumented JavaScript Engine to get coverage information. I cleaned up the repository. On the docket for tomorrow: Get a production version of v8 for error-checking -> instrumented version is very slow. This will be used to generate the seed corpus. I'm thinking 1) Generate the corpus via mixing every permutation of seeds 2) Insert interesting values into these permutations 3) Based on coverage feedback, we can detemine which values and structures are the most effective in increasing coverage. We just want to increase coverage. That's it.

January 30:
I feel like poop... nothing accomplished

January 31:
Clean up code tomorrow (config). exec_engine.execute_debug(file) takes the filename as input as opposed to the seed content itself... should fix this in the future for consistency sake. sake. idk... debug execution isn't as great as I initially thought. I set up the code such that interesting lines are stored inside a pickle file which will be a collection of interesting code lines. Eventually, based on the performance of these lines (i.e. coverage increases), there will be a database which describes the effectiveness of certain lines. 

February 1:
I wrote code to calculate the cost of the queries. This is something that will need to be optimized.Also, the LLM querying code has been modified such that it returns the interesting lines in a python list. I query it just one time, if it doesn't match the format, I just skip it... should probably implement some sort of fixing measure. From this corpus of interesting lines, we can calculate the coverage increases associated with them. We will prompt the LLM to insert the line into a snippet, then dependent on the coverage increase of the snippet, we can calculate a ranking for these covereage increases.

February 2:
This is February 1 Daniel telling February 2 Daniel to clean up the code, today. Specifically, put globals in the config file, move prompts to penguin, delete unused code, move isolated functions out of the generator file. Maybe consider writing an actual argument parser.

February 2:
Don't tell me what to do idiot. I dunno about the "interesting code line" thing. It causes a lot of errors.

February 5:
The limiting factor is in the LLM queries from both a monetary and speed perspective. There are a few considerations.
1) How do we want to mutate/fuzz?
-- mutate seeds to create a corpus which we run (2 stages)
-- mutate/fuzz together (1 stage)
-- have multiple sessions of option 1
2) LLM instances
-- Use ChatGPT exclusively
-- Use LLAMA
-- Use both
3) Multithreading
-- How many concurrent processes?
-- If using LLAMA exclusively, how many instances of LLAMA can we have?
---- i.e. We can query one instance of LLAMA one at a time -> slow

February 6-12:
Working on Fry to get llama running

February 13:
TODO: deintegrate the fuzzing engine from the mutation engine to enable two-stage processing. Specifically, mutation and execution should have NOTHING to do with each other. Here's a Venn diagram of how that looks OO.
THE ONLY "FIXING" that should be done is formatting. Each mutated seed's name will 

February 14:
I've removed the execution code from the mutation code. The initialization function for the mutator is slightly complicated, but this is by necessity. In case the mutation process is interrupted, we don't want to restart everything. After every mutation, our progress is saved.
The mixing code is complete, I think we should give it one attempt at fixing.

February 15:
Got to build the other engines. Add checkpoints just in case the system dies. -> singularity shell --nv *.sif
Singularity is vulnerable during the build

February 16...:
The entirety of this time has been spent setting up llama.

February 25:
Right now, we want to really think about the mutations, feedback loops, and metrics.

Mutations: Mixing... What else?
Feedback Loops: Fixing, Coverage...
Metrics: Coverage, Valid JS, Mutation Speed

Additionally, I want to introduce StarCoder to the system. In this case, we would still perform the mixing first. Then, we could use starcoder to further mutate the snippets by placing delimiters at random points. We DON'T NEED to use StarCoder, we can still use Llama and still craft a compelling narrative around it. E.g. Llama chat-based/Llama infilling usage. We'd call these targeted/guided mutations and stochastic insertions. Something like that... it just needs to work

March 5:
We need to compile with the address sanitizer on in order to find non-crashing memory bugs. To do this -> ```gn gen out2/fuzzbuild --args='is_debug=false dcheck_always_on=true v8_static_library=true v8_enable_verify_heap=true v8_fuzzilli=true sanitizer_coverage_flags="trace-pc-guard" is_asan=true target_cpu="x64"'```
CodeLlama cannot do infilling using the huggingface interface.

March 6:
I have the completion figured out. The issue with completion is getting a valid completion. Specifically, I can set the maximum number amount of new tokens I want in the response. This becomes problematic because the LLM will try to produce that amount of tokens, ignoring the final validity of the code. In other words, it will end before finishing a valid line of code (e.g. no ";"). This will require a secondary query to the Chat_LLM to fix.

March 7:
Alrightayyyyy we offically have all 3 LLMs done. Namely, Chat, Completion, Fill-in-the-Middle. Chat and Completion use llama while FIM uses starcoder2. Cannot have both models loaded at once as the GPU does not have enough space for that sort of thing. Time to do some mutations. Good work. Right now as of 2:00, the FIM does not return the entirety of the modified code. Let's fix that before the day ends.

Email Questions:
1) Where to copy Coverage.c for different js engine. e.g. monkey...
2) There is a fuzzilli directory for v8, what is the purpose of fuzzilli.cc and fuzzilli.h
3) For v8, we don't see fsanitize=address enabled, was this disabled or v8 has it's own? What about the other engines? Should we turn on asan for the other engines?

March 11:
We delete the beginning of the context window if there are too many tokens to process (i.e. remove the first element in the python list)

March 12:
We can use starcoder instead of codellama for code completion simply by placing the infilling token at the end of the prompt

March 13:
Because we are using Codellama34bhfinstruct, we only have code completion and chatting capabilities. We cannot perform infilling with this system.

March 14:
First, we want to use the mapper -> run using python3 mapper.py
A new bitmap needs to be established when running on a new device

March 18:
out2/fuzzbuild/d8 needs to be rebuilt and tested as Fuzzili will not treat crashes as crashes presently (refer to Samuel's email) I will work on this later, but at the moment, I need to work on the AI/SE aspect
I modified the code fixing such that I added context to it so it knows what kind of fixing I expect.

March 19:
The GPU needs to be used exclusively for the LLM, I've written receiver and host. Host will run the LLM, while receiver will act as "star_llama" interface to the LLM. Needs some fixing but mostly good.

March 22:
Completely done. Host has been integrated entirely into star_llama. Simply run star_llama.py on a GPU, import receiver.py on the CPU, and it can run in a very similar manner to the openai API. This code is a little bit special because of the system it is run on. Specifically, star_llama and receiver communicate to each other via a shared directory. On fry (my cluster), compute nodes all have access to my home directory, as such, there is no need to do any networking/sshing/scping to coordinate instructions.
Now, it is time to do the actual mutations, rebuild d8 according to Samuel GroB's suggestions. 

March 26:
It may be unnecessary to perform fixing prior to mixing the seeds.

March 27:
The generation of the C0V database has been modified such that the only seeds that go there are ones that cannot be executed. Not the ones that trigger less coverage than the other seeds.

March 28:
We need to take a further look at the mutation process of the JS snippets (i.e. Llama2) and decide on GPT4 and the feasibility of producing promising results with that LLM. We want to look at instrumenting a PHP engine with coverage and translating JavaScript snippets to PHP.

Here is the basic translation method we want to follow for PHP:
role description: "You are a JavaScript to PHP translator. You respond with ```<code>```"
add_context("user","JS_CODE")
this seems to work very well for llama at the moment

March 29:
https://github.com/guidance-ai/guidance.git
https://www.reddit.com/r/LocalLLaMA/comments/19e4dca/making_llama_model_return_only_what_i_ask_json/
